---
layout: post
title: "Downloading the FNG Repository"
date: 2016-08-02 15:02
categories: jekyll update
---
Lately Dylan and the rest of the guys working on Friends and Guests (FNG) have been swamped with work. After shipping the app to production, the team has been making a lot of changes based on some of the real users' feedback. One important thing they figured out was once someone tried uploading a lot of (say, twenty) pictures to their listing, things started messing up and started producing errors. This is one example of how it can be so beneficial to make your website/app public, even before it's entirely complete.

Luckily I still got to meet with Dylan today, despite him being busy with work. This week Dylan is going to talk with Rob about what contribution I can make on the front end code (javascript) to FNG. In order for me to eventually do that, I need to run a local server on my computer so I can see the changes I make in Atom, my text editor, live. To get set up , today I literally followed the instructions under "Setup" in the [FNG ReadMe](https://github.com/shakacode/friendsandguests/blob/master/docs/setup.md) on Github. It had me install some things like NVM and Node and then clone the FNG repository. Then it had me reset the database, but I got a bunch of errors. Dylan and I did some ["yak shaving"](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/yak_shaving), and eventually we (mainly Dylan) solved the problems. Our yak shave consisted of several Stack Overflow articles, package installations, re-installations, and using Dylan's superior coding knowledge to trouble shoot our way through some weird error messages. The problems we encountered mainly had to do with my computer not having certain packages/tools, such as Redis and NPM, that the database was trying to utilize in the process of resetting it. Redis stores sample users and other things into the database that the staging app uses. NPM installs all the necessary tools that the front end code needed to work, similar to how installing gems is necessary for the backend Ruby code. It was all kinda complicated and I still don't fully understand it nor should I, but the important part is that now I can run a local server on my laptop.

After that, I tested a recent pull request in a pretty neat way. Using Heroku, you have the power to create a sample website of what the FNG app would look like were a new pull request to get accepted. This is handy for visually (compared to editing the literal code) testing other people's pull requests, because you can't run a local server with their personal code changes. Dylan made one of these sample Heroku websites and sent me the link, where I interacted with the website to test some of the new changes. Everything worked well besides a few tiny things I noticed and mentioned to Dylan, which didn't have anything to do with this specific pull request, but he said they were already working on those issues.

That was it for today. Dylan will touch base with me soon about what contribution I will make, and I may even continue it after I leave Maui. That's the nice part about this--I can do everything remotely and don't even need to be in the same country as anyone on the team. Hopefully as my knowledge deepens throughout this I will eventually be able to start working for Justin, right from the comfort of my home.
